User Guides/4-Manage the Deployed Infrastructure.md, before:

# Manage the Deployed Infrastructure

## Summary
Once the deployment is successfully completed, you will find information about how to manage the deployment and change some key properties of your deployment.

# Table of Contents
1. [Change key properties of the deployment](#change-key-properties-of-the-deployment)
2. [Change the password to the datawarehouse user account](#change-the-password-to-the-datawarehouse-user-account)
3. [Add more virtual machines to your SSRS scale-out set](#add-more-virtual-machines-to-your-ssrs-scale-out-set)
4. [Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Read-Only scale-out set](#add-more-virtual-machines-to-your-ssas-read-only-scale-out-set)
5. [Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Direct-Query scale-out set](#add-more-virtual-machines-to-your-ssas-direct-query-scale-out-set)

### Change key properties of the deployment

The following data-driven values are tracked in the dbo.ControlServerProperties table in the Job Manager database (search for ControlServerDB in resources under your resource group) and can be edited to change the desired setting:
1. `ComputeUnits_Active` and `ComputeUnits_Load`:
These two properties track the datawarehouse compute units for the datawarehouse that is in the active or load state respectively. Please exercise caution and pick an [allowable value](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/sql-data-warehouse/elasticity/) while also considering the pricing for the desired values. If the value is not allowed, it will be ignored in favor of a safe default which will not help you achieve the desired scale.

2. `FlipInterval`: This number stands for the number of hours after which we will attempt to flip the state of the logical datawarehouses (along with the physical datawarehouses under it) from `Active` to `Load`. The exact flip event times are visible in the Admin UI as well as the dbo.DWStateHistories table in the Job Manager database.

### Change the password to the datawarehouse user account
This section is TBD.

### Add more virtual machines to your SSRS scale-out set

You can add new virtual machines of type SSRS if you want to want to scale-out your SSRS nodes.

1.  Add SSRS virtual machines:
    1. Find your deployment resource group in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
    2. Add new VMs as needed along with network interfaces and join the VM to your Azure AD domain, [install the OMS extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-oms) to enable monitoring and join the virtual machine to the SSRS availability set. Alternately, you can search for the deployment (called 'deployVMSSRS') from the deployments in your resource group  and redeploy the additional VMs by simply increasing the number of instances.

2. Register DSC on the new virtual machines:
    1. Find your resource by searching for 'automationAccount' in your resource group.
    2. Under `Configuration Management`, click on `DSC Nodes` and add your new Azure VM and connect it to the 'DSCConfiguration.ssrs' node configuration. Choose 'ApplyAndMonitor' for the `Configuration Mode` and 'ContinueConfiguration' for the `Action after Reboot` while adding the node. Once the node is added, you will be able to find it listed under `DSC Nodes`.

3. Add the virtual machine to the SSRS scale-out set:
This step will require you to download a custom script extension (ConfigureSSRS-CSE.ps1) which can be found in the 'ssrs' container in the artifacts storage account (search for 'edwartifacts' under your resource group) and use the default parameter set ('NonPrimarySSRS') since you are adding the VM to an existing scale-out set.

### Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Read-Only scale-out set

You can add new virtual machines of type SSAS Read-Only if you want to want to scale-out your SSAS Read-Only nodes.

1.  Add SSAS Read-Only virtual machines:
    1. Find your deployment resource group in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
    2. Add new VMs as needed along with network interfaces and join the VM to your Azure AD domain, [install the OMS extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-oms) to enable monitoring and join the virtual machine to the SSAS Read-Only availability set. Alternately, you can search for the deployment (called 'deployVMSSASRo') from the deployments in your resource group  and redeploy the additional VMs by simply increasing the number of instances.

2. Register DSC on the new virtual machines:
    1. Find your resource by searching for 'automationAccount' in your resource group.
    2. Under `Configuration Management`, click on `DSC Nodes` and add your new Azure VM and connect it to the 'DSCConfiguration.ssasro' node configuration. Choose 'ApplyAndMonitor' for the `Configuration Mode` and 'ContinueConfiguration' for the `Action after Reboot` while adding the node. Once the node is added, you will be able to find it listed under `DSC Nodes`.

3. Populate the dbo.TabularModelNodeAssignments table in the Job Manager database (search for 'ControlServerDB' in the resources under your resource group). The data values depend on the Analysis Services tables that you intend to populate on the SSAS Read-Only virtual machine. You can examine the existing entries corresponding to existing nodes in this table for suitable examples. In order to catch up with the other Read-Only nodes, we recommend restoring backups of the databases from those nodes onto your newly added node.

### Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Direct-Query scale-out set

You can add new virtual machines of type SSAS Direct-Query if you want to want to scale-out your SSAS Direct-Query nodes.

1.  Add SSAS Direct-Query virtual machines:
    1. Find your deployment resource group in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
    2. Add new VMs as needed along with network interfaces and join the VM to your Azure AD domain, [install the OMS extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-oms) to enable monitoring and join the virtual machine to the SSAS Direct-Query availability set. Alternately, you can search for the deployment (called 'deployVMSSASDq') from the deployments in your resource group  and redeploy the additional VMs by simply increasing the number of instances.

2. Register DSC on the new virtual machines:
    1. Find your resource by searching for 'automationAccount' in your resource group.
    2. Under `Configuration Management`, click on `DSC Nodes` and add your new Azure VM and connect it to the 'DSCConfiguration.ssasdq' node configuration. Choose 'ApplyAndMonitor' for the `Configuration Mode` and 'ContinueConfiguration' for the `Action after Reboot` while adding the node. Once the node is added, you will be able to find it listed under `DSC Nodes`.

3. Populate the dbo.PDWAliasNodeStates table in the Job Manager database (search for 'ControlServerDB' in the resources under your resource group). You can examine the existing rows in this table for suitable examples. Pick an AliasName from the current set of aliases. In order to equally distribute the load among the physical datawarehouses, we recommend that you target for an even distribution of aliases between the rows in this table to the extent possible.

Commit message:

Documentation for the flip operation constants stored in database

User Guides/4-Manage the Deployed Infrastructure.md, after:

# Manage the Deployed Infrastructure

## Summary
Once the deployment is successfully completed, you will find information about how to manage the deployment and change some key properties of your deployment.

# Table of Contents
1. [Change key properties of the deployment](#change-key-properties-of-the-deployment)
2. [Change the password to the datawarehouse user account](#change-the-password-to-the-datawarehouse-user-account)
3. [Add more virtual machines to your SSRS scale-out set](#add-more-virtual-machines-to-your-ssrs-scale-out-set)
4. [Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Read-Only scale-out set](#add-more-virtual-machines-to-your-ssas-read-only-scale-out-set)
5. [Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Direct-Query scale-out set](#add-more-virtual-machines-to-your-ssas-direct-query-scale-out-set)

### Change key properties of the deployment

The following data-driven values are tracked in the dbo.ControlServerProperties table in the Job Manager database (search for ControlServerDB in resources under your resource group) and can be edited to change the desired setting:
1. `ComputeUnits_Active` and `ComputeUnits_Load`:
These two properties track the datawarehouse compute units for the datawarehouse that is in the active or load state respectively. Please exercise caution and pick an [allowable value](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/sql-data-warehouse/elasticity/) while also considering the pricing for the desired values. If the value is not allowed, it will be ignored in favor of a safe default which will not help you achieve the desired scale.

2. `FlipInterval`: This number stands for the number of hours after which we will attempt to flip the state of the logical datawarehouses (along with the physical datawarehouses under it) from `Active` to `Load`. The exact flip event times are visible in the Admin UI as well as the dbo.DWStateHistories table in the Job Manager database.

3. `MinDQNodesNotInTransitionStateDuringFlip`: This number specifies the minimum number of Direct Query nodes in an `Analysis Services Direct Query (ASDQ)` group that should be in normal state serving queries during any flip operation. During any flip operation check for a direct query node, it is checked whether there are {`MinDQNodesNotInTransitionStateDuringFlip`} number of direct query nodes in normal state. If not then the node is not flipped and it awaits for the condition to be satisfied before flip can happen. If there in only a single node in an `ASDQ` group then this condition is ignored.

4. `MinSSASROServersNotInTransition`: Minimum number of Read Only nodes that should be in Active state during a flip operation.

5. `MinsAliasNodeDaemonGraceTime`: Time in minutes that a Direct Query node is given to drain existing connections during a flip operaton. The connection string to the physical datawarehouse is switched after {`MinsAliasNodeDaemonGraceTime`} minutes from the start of the flip operation initiation for the node.

6. `MinsToWaitBeforeKillingAliasNodeDaemonGraceTime`: In case a Direct Query node does not respond back after `MinsAliasNodeDaemonGraceTime` minutes signalling the completion of its connection string switch (in case the node goes down), a sweeper job changes the state of the Direct Query node to `ChangeCompleted` after waiting for another  {`MinsToWaitBeforeKillingAliasNodeDaemonGraceTime`} minutes and unblocks the flip operation. When the node comes back up, it polls its new connection string from Control Server and is ready to serve requests.

7. `BatchUriLinkedService`: The uri to the batch linked service.

### Change the password to the datawarehouse user account
This section is TBD.

### Add more virtual machines to your SSRS scale-out set

You can add new virtual machines of type SSRS if you want to want to scale-out your SSRS nodes.

1.  Add SSRS virtual machines:
    1. Find your deployment resource group in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
    2. Add new VMs as needed along with network interfaces and join the VM to your Azure AD domain, [install the OMS extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-oms) to enable monitoring and join the virtual machine to the SSRS availability set. Alternately, you can search for the deployment (called 'deployVMSSRS') from the deployments in your resource group  and redeploy the additional VMs by simply increasing the number of instances.

2. Register DSC on the new virtual machines:
    1. Find your resource by searching for 'automationAccount' in your resource group.
    2. Under `Configuration Management`, click on `DSC Nodes` and add your new Azure VM and connect it to the 'DSCConfiguration.ssrs' node configuration. Choose 'ApplyAndMonitor' for the `Configuration Mode` and 'ContinueConfiguration' for the `Action after Reboot` while adding the node. Once the node is added, you will be able to find it listed under `DSC Nodes`.

3. Add the virtual machine to the SSRS scale-out set:
This step will require you to download a custom script extension (ConfigureSSRS-CSE.ps1) which can be found in the 'ssrs' container in the artifacts storage account (search for 'edwartifacts' under your resource group) and use the default parameter set ('NonPrimarySSRS') since you are adding the VM to an existing scale-out set.

### Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Read-Only scale-out set

You can add new virtual machines of type SSAS Read-Only if you want to want to scale-out your SSAS Read-Only nodes.

1.  Add SSAS Read-Only virtual machines:
    1. Find your deployment resource group in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
    2. Add new VMs as needed along with network interfaces and join the VM to your Azure AD domain, [install the OMS extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-oms) to enable monitoring and join the virtual machine to the SSAS Read-Only availability set. Alternately, you can search for the deployment (called 'deployVMSSASRo') from the deployments in your resource group  and redeploy the additional VMs by simply increasing the number of instances.

2. Register DSC on the new virtual machines:
    1. Find your resource by searching for 'automationAccount' in your resource group.
    2. Under `Configuration Management`, click on `DSC Nodes` and add your new Azure VM and connect it to the 'DSCConfiguration.ssasro' node configuration. Choose 'ApplyAndMonitor' for the `Configuration Mode` and 'ContinueConfiguration' for the `Action after Reboot` while adding the node. Once the node is added, you will be able to find it listed under `DSC Nodes`.

3. Populate the dbo.TabularModelNodeAssignments table in the Job Manager database (search for 'ControlServerDB' in the resources under your resource group). The data values depend on the Analysis Services tables that you intend to populate on the SSAS Read-Only virtual machine. You can examine the existing entries corresponding to existing nodes in this table for suitable examples. In order to catch up with the other Read-Only nodes, we recommend restoring backups of the databases from those nodes onto your newly added node.

### Add more virtual machines to your SSAS Direct-Query scale-out set

You can add new virtual machines of type SSAS Direct-Query if you want to want to scale-out your SSAS Direct-Query nodes.

1.  Add SSAS Direct-Query virtual machines:
    1. Find your deployment resource group in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
    2. Add new VMs as needed along with network interfaces and join the VM to your Azure AD domain, [install the OMS extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-oms) to enable monitoring and join the virtual machine to the SSAS Direct-Query availability set. Alternately, you can search for the deployment (called 'deployVMSSASDq') from the deployments in your resource group  and redeploy the additional VMs by simply increasing the number of instances.

2. Register DSC on the new virtual machines:
    1. Find your resource by searching for 'automationAccount' in your resource group.
    2. Under `Configuration Management`, click on `DSC Nodes` and add your new Azure VM and connect it to the 'DSCConfiguration.ssasdq' node configuration. Choose 'ApplyAndMonitor' for the `Configuration Mode` and 'ContinueConfiguration' for the `Action after Reboot` while adding the node. Once the node is added, you will be able to find it listed under `DSC Nodes`.

3. Populate the dbo.PDWAliasNodeStates table in the Job Manager database (search for 'ControlServerDB' in the resources under your resource group). You can examine the existing rows in this table for suitable examples. Pick an AliasName from the current set of aliases. In order to equally distribute the load among the physical datawarehouses, we recommend that you target for an even distribution of aliases between the rows in this table to the extent possible.
